'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_fselect.3,v 1.15 2002/07/17 09:54:27 tom Exp $
.TH cdk_fselect 3
.SH NAME
activateCDKFselect,
destroyCDKFselect,
drawCDKFselect,
eraseCDKFselect,
getCDKFselectBox,
getCDKFselectDirAttribute,
getCDKFselectDirectory,
getCDKFselectFileAttribute,
getCDKFselectFillerChar,
getCDKFselectHighlight,
getCDKFselectLinkAttribute,
getCDKFselectSocketAttribute,
injectCDKFselect,
moveCDKFselect,
newCDKFselect,
positionCDKFselect,
setCDKFselect,
setCDKFselectBackgroundColor,
setCDKFselectBox,
setCDKFselectBoxAttribute,
setCDKFselectDirAttribute,
setCDKFselectDirectory,
setCDKFselectFileAttribute,
setCDKFselectFillerChar,
setCDKFselectHighlight,
setCDKFselectHorizontalChar,
setCDKFselectLLChar,
setCDKFselectLRChar,
setCDKFselectLinkAttribute,
setCDKFselectSocketAttribute,
setCDKFselectULChar,
setCDKFselectURChar,
setCDKFselectVerticalChar \- curses file selector widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "char *activateCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype *" "actions");
.TP 15
.B "void destroyCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "void drawCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void eraseCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "boolean getCDKFselectBox ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "char *getCDKFselectDirAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "char **getCDKFselectDirectory ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "char *getCDKFselectFileAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "chtype getCDKFselectFillerChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "chtype getCDKFselectHighlight ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "char *getCDKFselectLinkAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "char *getCDKFselectSocketAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "char *injectCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "input");
.TP 15
.B "void moveCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "int " "box",
.BI "int " "box",
.BI "boolean " "relative",
.BI "boolean " "refresh");
.TP 15
.B "CDKFSELECT *newCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "cdkscreen",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "int " "height",
.BI "int " "width",
.BI "char *" "title",
.BI "char *" "label",
.BI "chtype " "fieldAttribute",
.BI "chtype " "fillerCharacter",
.BI "chtype " "highlight",
.BI "char *" "dirAttribute",
.BI "char *" "fileAttribute",
.BI "char *" "linkAttribute",
.BI "char *" "sockAttribute",
.BI "boolean " "box",
.BI "boolean " "shadow");
.TP 15
.B "void positionCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselect ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "fieldAttribute",
.BI "chtype " "fillerCharacter",
.BI "chtype " "highlight",
.BI "char *" "dirAttribute",
.BI "char *" "fileAttribute",
.BI "char *" "linkAttribute",
.BI "char *" "sockAttribute",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectBackgroundColor ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "char * " "color");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectBox ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectBoxAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectDirAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "char *" "attribute");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectDirectory ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "char *" "directory");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectFileAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "char *" "attribute");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectFillerChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "filler");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectHighlight ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "highlight");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectHorizontalChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectLLChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectLRChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectLinkAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "char *" "attribute");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectSocketAttribute ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "char *" "attribute");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectULChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectURChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKFselectVerticalChar ("
.BI "CDKFSELECT *" "fselect",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cdk file selector widget creates a widget which allows a user to interact
with the Unix file system.
This widget allows the user to traverse the file
system and even delete files.
(See \fINOTES\fR below for more information)
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B activateCDKFselect
activates the file selector widget and lets the user interact with the widget.
The parameter \fBfselect\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL file selector widget.
If the \fBactions\fR parameter is passed with a non-NULL value, the characters
in the array will be injected into the widget.
To activate the widget
interactively pass in a \fINULL\fR pointer for \fBactions\fR.
If the character entered
into this widget is \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will return
a \fIchar *\fR representing the information typed into the widget and the
widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the character
entered was \fIESCAPE\fR then the function will return \fINULL\fR pointer and
the widget data \fIexitType\fR is set to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
.TP 5
.B destroyCDKFselect
removes the widget from the screen and frees memory the object used.
.TP 5
.B drawCDKFselect
draws the fselect widget on the screen.
If the \fBbox\fR option is true, the widget is drawn with a box.
.TP 5
.B eraseCDKFselect
removes the widget from the screen.
This does \fINOT\fR destroy the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectBox
returns true if the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectDirAttribute
returns the attribute that directories are drawn with in the
scrolling region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectDirectory
returns the current directory of the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectFileAttribute
returns the attribute that plain files are drawn with in the
scrolling region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectFillerChar
returns the character being used as the filler character in the
entry field portion of the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectHighlight
returns the attribute of the highlight bar of the scrolling
list portion of the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectLinkAttribute
returns the attribute that symbolic links are drawn with in the
scrolling region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKFselectSocketAttribute
returns the attribute that sockets are drawn with in the
scrolling region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B injectCDKFselect
injects a single character into the widget.
The parameter \fBfselect\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL file selector.
The parameter \fBcharacter\fR is the character to inject into the widget.
If the character
injected into this widget was \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will
return a \fIchar *\fR representing the information typed into the widget and the
widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the character
entered was \fIESCAPE\fR then the function will return \fINULL\fR pointer and
the widget data \fIexitType\fR is set to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
Any other
character injected into the widget will set the widget data \fIexitType\fR
to \fIvEARLY_EXIT\fR and the function will return a \fINULL\fR pointer.
.TP 5
.B moveCDKFselect
moves the given widget to the given position.
The parameters \fBxpos\fR and \fBypos\fR are the new position of the widget.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBrelative\fR states whether
the \fBxpos\fR/\fBypos\fR pair is a relative move or an absolute move.
For example, if \fBxpos\fR = 1 and \fBypos\fR = 2 and \fBrelative\fR = \fBTRUE\fR,
then the widget would move one row down and two columns right.
If the value of \fBrelative\fR was \fBFALSE\fR then the widget would move to the position (1,2).
Do not use the values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, or \fICENTER\fR when \fBrelative\fR = \fITRUE\fR.
(weird things may happen).
The final parameter \fBrefresh\fR is a boolean value which states
whether the widget will get refreshed after the move.
.TP 5
.B newCDKFselect
creates an fselect widget and returns a pointer to it.
The \fBscreen\fR parameter
is the screen you wish this widget to be placed in.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR
controls the placement of the object along the horizontal axis.
This parameter
may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR controls the placement
of the object along the vertical axis.
This parameter may be an integer
value or one of the pre-defined values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameters \fBheight\fR and \fBwidth\fR control the height and width of the widget.
If you provide a value of zero for either of the height or the width,
the widget will be created with the full width and height of the screen.
If you provide a negative value, the widget will be created the full height or
width minus the value provided.
The \fBtitle\fR parameter is the string which
will be displayed at the top of the widget.
The title can be more than one
line; just provide a carriage return character at the line break.
The parameter \fBlabel\fR sets the label of the file selector.
The \fBfieldAttribute\fR
parameter sets the attribute of the entry field at the top of the widget;
\fBfillerCharacter\fR defines the filler character for the entry field.
The \fBhighlight\fR sets the highlight attribute on the scrolling list.
The next
four parameters: \fBdirAttribute\fR, \fBfileAttribute\fR, \fBlinkAttribute\fR,
and \fBsockAttribute\fR set the attributes of directories, files, links, and
sockets found in the directory list.
The \fBbox\fR parameter states whether
the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
The \fBshadow\fR
parameter accepts a boolean value to turn the shadow on or off around this widget.
If the widget could not be created then a \fINULL\fR pointer is returned.
.TP 5
.B positionCDKFselect
allows the user to move the widget around the screen via the cursor/keypad keys.
See \fBcdk_position (3)\fR for key bindings.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselect
lets the programmer modify certain elements of an existing fselect widget.
The parameter names correspond to the same parameter
names listed in the \fInewCDKFselect\fR function.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectBackgroundColor
sets the background color of the widget.
The parameter \fBcolor\fR
is in the format of the Cdk format strings.
See \fBcdk_display (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectBox
sets whether the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectBoxAttribute
sets the attribute of the box.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectDirAttribute
sets the attribute that directories will be drawn with in the scrolling
region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectDirectory
sets the current directory of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectFileAttribute
sets the attribute that plain files will be drawn with in the scrolling
region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectFillerChar
sets the character to use when drawing the entry field portion of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectHighlight
sets the attribute of the highlight bar of the scrolling
list portion of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectHorizontalChar
sets the horizontal drawing character for the box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectLLChar
sets the lower left hand corner of the widget's box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectLRChar
sets the lower right hand corner of the widget's box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectLinkAttribute
sets the attribute that symbolic links will be drawn with in the scrolling
region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectSocketAttribute
sets the attribute that sockets will be drawn with in the scrolling
region of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectULChar
sets the upper left hand corner of the widget's box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectURChar
sets the upper right hand corner of the widget's box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKFselectVerticalChar
sets the vertical drawing character for the box to
the given character.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
When the widget is activated there are several default key bindings which will
help the user enter or manipulate the information quickly.
Since this widget is
built from both the scrolling list widget and the entry field widget, the key
bindings are the same for the respective fields.
The extra key bindings are
listed below.
.LP
.TS
center tab(/) allbox;
l l
l l
lw15 lw35 .
\fBKey/Action\fR
=
CTRL-^/Displays statistics about the current filename.
Tab/Tries to complete the current filename.
Up Arrow/Scrolls the scrolling list up one line.
Down Arrow/Scrolls the scrolling list down one line.
Page Up/Scrolls the scrolling list up one page.
CTRL-B/Scrolls the scrolling list up one page.
Page Down/T{
Scrolls the scrolling list down one page.
T}
CTRL-F/T{
Scrolls the scrolling list down one page.
T}
Return/T{
Returns the filename in the entry field of the file selector.
It also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
T}
Escape/T{
Exits the widget and returns a \fINULL\fR pointer.
It also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk (3),
.BR cdk_binding (3),
.BR cdk_display (3),
.BR cdk_position (3),
.BR cdk_screen (3)
.SH NOTES
.PP
This widget is created from the scrolling list widget and the entry field widget.
This is a good example on how to build your own widgets using the
base widgets provided in this distribution.
In order for you to delete
files using the file selector, you must add the following call
into your program.
(the character X is the character you wish to use to
tell the file selector you want to delete a file.)
.RS 5
\fBbindCDKObject (vSCROLL, fselect->filelist, X, deleteFile, fselect);\fR
.RE
where \fBfselect\fR is a pointer to the object.
This was originally turned on,
but I thought it better to put the control of file deletion on an 'as-need' basis.
