'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_buttonbox.3,v 1.15 2003/04/18 00:00:09 tom Exp $
.TH cdk_buttonbox 3
.SH NAME
activateCDKButtonbox,
destroyCDKButtonbox,
drawCDKButtonbox,
eraseCDKButtonbox,
getCDKButtonboxBox,
getCDKButtonboxHighlight,
injectCDKButtonbox,
moveCDKButtonbox,
newCDKButtonbox,
positionCDKButtonbox,
setCDKButtonbox,
setCDKButtonboxBackgroundColor,
setCDKButtonboxBox,
setCDKButtonboxBoxAttribute,
setCDKButtonboxHighlight,
setCDKButtonboxHorizontalChar,
setCDKButtonboxLLChar,
setCDKButtonboxLRChar,
setCDKButtonboxPostProcess,
setCDKButtonboxPreProcess,
setCDKButtonboxULChar,
setCDKButtonboxURChar,
setCDKButtonboxVerticalChar \- Creates a managed curses buttonbox widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "int activateCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype * " "actions");
.TP 15
.B "void destroyCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox");
.TP 15
.B "void drawCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void eraseCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox");
.TP 15
.B "boolean getCDKButtonboxBox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox");
.TP 15
.B "chtype getCDKButtonboxHighlight ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox");
.TP 15
.B "int injectCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "input");
.TP 15
.B "void moveCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "boolean " "relative",
.BI "boolean " "refresh");
.TP 15
.B "CDKBUTTONBOX *newCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "cdkscreen",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "int " "height",
.BI "int " "width",
.BI "char * " "title" ,
.BI "int " "rows",
.BI "int " "cols",
.BI "char ** " "buttons" ,
.BI "int " "buttonCount",
.BI "chtype " "highlight" ,
.BI "boolean " "box",
.BI "boolean " "shadow");
.TP 15
.B "void positionCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonbox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "highlight",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxBackgroundColor ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "char * " "color");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxBox ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxBoxAttribute ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxHighlight ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "highlight");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxHorizontalChar ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxLLChar ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxLRChar ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxPostProcess ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "callback",
.BI "void * " "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxPreProcess ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "callback",
.BI "void * " "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxULChar ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxURChar ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKButtonboxVerticalChar ("
.BI "CDKBUTTONBOX *" "buttonbox",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cdk buttonbox widget creates a buttonbox box with a message and a varied number of
buttons to choose from.
The following functions create or manipulate the Cdk buttonbox box widget.
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B activateCDKButtonbox
activates the buttonbox widget and lets the user interact with the widget.
The parameter \fBbuttonbox\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL buttonbox widget.
If the \fBactions\fR parameter is passed with a non-NULL value, the characters
in the array will be injected into the widget.
To activate the widget
interactively pass in a \fINULL\fR pointer for \fBactions\fR.
If the character entered
into this widget is \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will return a
value from 0 to the number of buttons -1, representing the button selected.
It will also set the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the
character entered into this widget was \fIESCAPE\fR then the widget will return
a value of -1 and the widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to
\fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
.TP 5
.B destroyCDKButtonbox
removes the widget from the screen and releases any memory the
object used.
.TP 5
.B drawCDKButtonbox
draws the buttonbox widget on the screen.
If the \fBbox\fR parameter is true, the widget is drawn with a box.
.TP 5
.B eraseCDKButtonbox
removes the widget from the screen.
This does \fINOT\fR destroy the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKButtonboxBox
returns true if the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B getCDKButtonboxHighlight
returns the highlight attribute of the widget.
.TP 5
.B injectCDKButtonbox
injects a single character into the widget.
The parameter \fBbuttonbox\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL buttonbox widget.
The parameter \fBcharacter\fR is the character to inject into the widget.
If the character
injected into this widget was \fIRETURN\fR then the character injected into
this widget is \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will return a
value from 0 to the number of buttons -1, representing the button selected.
It will also set the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the
character entered into this widget was \fIESCAPE\fR then the widget will return
a value of -1 and the widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to
\fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
Any other character injected into the widget will set the
widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvEARLY_EXIT\fR and the function will
return -1.
.TP 5
.B moveCDKButtonbox
moves the given widget to the given position.
The parameters \fBxpos\fR and \fBypos\fR are the new position of the widget.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fILEFT\fR, \fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBrelative\fR states whether
the \fBxpos\fR/\fBypos\fR pair is a relative move or an absolute move.
For example, if \fBxpos\fR = 1 and \fBypos\fR = 2 and \fBrelative\fR = \fBTRUE\fR,
then the widget would move one row down and two columns right.
If the value of \fBrelative\fR was \fBFALSE\fR then the widget would move to the position (1,2).
Do not use the values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, or \fICENTER\fR when \fBrelative\fR = \fITRUE\fR.
(weird things may happen).
The final parameter \fBrefresh\fR is a boolean value which states
whether the widget will get refreshed after the move.
.TP 5
.B newCDKButtonbox
creates a pointer to a buttonbox widget.
The \fBscreen\fR parameter
is the screen you wish this widget to be placed in.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR controls the placement of the object along the horizontal axis.
It may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR controls the placement
of the object along the vertical axis.
This parameter may be an integer
value or one of the pre-defined values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The \fBheight\fR and \fBwidth\fR parameters control the height and width of the widget.
The parameter \fBtitle\fR is the title of the widget.
The \fBrows\fR
parameter states how many rows of buttons there will be; \fBcols\fR sets the number
of columns.
The \fBbuttons\fR array contains a list of all the buttons; while
\fBbuttonCount\fR is the number of elements in the \fBbutton\fR array.
\fBhighlight\fR is the attribute of the currently highlighted button.
The \fBbox\fR parameter states whether the widget will be drawn with a box around
it.
The \fBshadow\fR parameter turns the shadow on or off around this widget.
If the widget could not be created then a \fINULL\fR
pointer is returned.
.TP 5
.B positionCDKButtonbox
allows the user to move the widget around the screen via the cursor/keypad keys.
See \fBcdk_position (3)\fR for key bindings.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonbox
lets the programmer modify certain elements of an existing
buttonbox widget.
The parameter names correspond to the same parameter names listed
in the \fBnewCDKButtonbox\fR function.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxBackgroundColor
sets the background color of the widget.
The parameter \fBcolor\fR
is in the format of the Cdk format strings.
(See \fIcdk_display\fR).
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxBox
sets true if the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxBoxAttribute
sets the attribute of the box.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxHighlight
sets the highlight attribute of the selected button.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxHorizontalChar
sets the horizontal drawing character for the box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxLLChar
sets the lower left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxLRChar
sets the lower right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxPostProcess
allows the user to have the widget call a function after the
key has been applied to the widget.
The parameter \fBfunction\fR is the callback function.
(See \fIcdk_process\fR).
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxPreProcess
allows the user to have the widget call a function after a key
is hit and before the key is applied to the widget.
The parameter \fBfunction\fR is the callback function.
(See \fIcdk_process\fR).
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxULChar
sets the upper left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxURChar
sets the upper right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKButtonboxVerticalChar
sets the vertical drawing character for the box to the given character.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
When the widget is activated there are several default key bindings which will
help the user enter or manipulate the information quickly.
The following table
outlines the keys and their actions for this widget.
.LP
.TS
center tab(/) allbox;
l l
l l
lw15 lw35 .
\fBKey          Action\fR
=
Left Arrow/T{
Selects the button to the left of the current button.
T}
Right Arrow/T{
Selects the button to the right of the current button.
T}
Tab/T{
Selects the button to the right of the current button.
T}
Space/T{
Selects the button to the right of the current button.
T}
Return/T{
Exits the widget and returns the index of the selected button.
This also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
T}
Tab/T{
Exits the widget and returns the index of the selected button.
This also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
T}
Escape/T{
Exits the widget and returns -1.
This also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
T}
Ctrl-L/T{
Refreshes the screen.
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk (3),
.BR cdk_binding (3),
.BR cdk_display (3),
.BR cdk_position (3),
.BR cdk_process (3),
.BR cdk_screen (3)
