'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_viewer.3,v 1.11 2000/09/15 02:07:52 tom Exp $
.TH cdk_viewer 3
.SH NAME
activateCDKViewer,
bindCDKObject,
destroyCDKViewer,
drawCDKViewer,
eraseCDKViewer,
getCDKViewerBox,
getCDKViewerHighlight,
getCDKViewerInfo,
getCDKViewerInfoLine,
getCDKViewerTitle,
moveCDKViewer,
newCDKViewer,
positionCDKViewer,
setCDKViewer,
setCDKViewerBackgroundColor,
setCDKViewerBox,
setCDKViewerBoxAttribute,
setCDKViewerHighlight,
setCDKViewerHorizontalChar,
setCDKViewerInfo,
setCDKViewerInfoLine,
setCDKViewerLLChar,
setCDKViewerLRChar,
setCDKViewerTitle,
setCDKViewerULChar,
setCDKViewerURChar,
setCDKViewerVerticalChar \- curses viewer list widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "int activateCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "void bindCDKObject ("
.BI "EObjectType " "widgetType",
.BI "void *" "object",
.BI "chtype " "key",
.BI "BINDFN " "function",
.BI "void *" "data");
.TP 15
.B "void destroyCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "void drawCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void eraseCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "boolean getCDKViewerBox ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "chtype getCDKViewerHighlight ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "int getCDKViewerInfo ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "char **" "itemList");
.TP 15
.B "boolean getCDKViewerInfoLine ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "int getCDKViewerTitle ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "void moveCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWEE *" "viewer",
.BI "int " "box",
.BI "int " "box",
.BI "boolean " "relative",
.BI "boolean " "refresh");
.TP 15
.B "CDKVIEWER *newCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "cdkscreen",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "int " "height",
.BI "int " "width",
.BI "char **" "buttonList",
.BI "int " "buttonCount",
.BI "chtype " "buttonHighlight",
.BI "boolean " "box",
.BI "boolean " "shadow");
.TP 15
.B "void positionCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewer ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "char *" "title",
.BI "char **" "info",
.BI "int " "infoSize",
.BI "chtype " "buttonAttribute",
.BI "boolean " "interpret",
.BI "boolean " "showLineInfo",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerBackgroundColor ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "char * " "color");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerBox ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "boolean " "Box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerBoxAttribute ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerHighlight ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "highlight");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerHorizontalChar ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerInfo ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "char **" "itemList",
.BI "int " "listSize",
.BI "boolean " "numbers");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerTitle ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "char *" "title");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerInfoLine ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "boolean " "showInfoLine");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerLLChar ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerLRChar ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerTitle ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "char *" "title");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerULChar ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerURChar ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKViewerVerticalChar ("
.BI "CDKVIEWER *" "viewer",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cdk viewer widget creates a file viewer widget.
This widget allows a user
to interact with a file.
It does \fINOT\fR allow editing, this is view only.
The following are functions which create or manipulate the Cdk viewer list widget.
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B activateCDKViewer
activates the viewer widget and lets the user interact with the widget.
The parameter \fBviewer\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL viewer widget.
If the \fBactions\fR parameter is passed with a non-NULL value, the characters
in the array will be injected into the widget.
To activate the widget
interactively pass in a \fINULL\fR pointer for \fBactions\fR.
If the character entered
into this widget is \fIRETURN\fR then this function will return a value from
0 to the number of buttons -1, representing the button selected.
It will also
set the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the character
entered into this widget was \fIESCAPE\fR then the widget will return
a value of -1 and the widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
.TP 5
.B bindCDKObject
allows the user to create special key bindings.
The \fBwidgetType\fR parameter is a defined type which states what Cdk object
type is being used.
To learn more about the type \fIEObjectType\fR see \fIcdk_binding (3)\fR.
The \fBobject\fR parameter is the pointer
to the widget object.
The \fBkey\fR is the character to bind.
The \fBfunction\fR is the function type.
To learn more about the key binding callback function types see \fIcdk_binding (3)\fR.
The last parameter \fBdata\fR points to data that is passed to the callback function.
.TP 5
.B destroyCDKViewer
removes the widget from the screen and frees memory the object used.
.TP 5
.B drawCDKViewer
draws the viewer widget on the screen.
If the \fBbox\fR option is true, the widget is drawn with a box.
.TP 5
.B eraseCDKViewer
removes the widget from the screen.
This does \fINOT\fR destroy the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKViewerBox
returns true if the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B getCDKViewerHighlight
returns the attribute of the buttons.
.TP 5
.B getCDKViewerInfo
returns the contents of the viewer widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKViewerInfoLine
returns true if the information line is on.
.TP 5
.B getCDKViewerTitle
returns the title of the widget.
.TP 5
.B moveCDKViewer
function moves the given widget to the given position.
The parameters \fBxpos\fR and \fBypos\fR are the new position of the widget.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBrelative\fR states whether
the \fBxpos\fR/\fBypos\fR pair is a relative move or an absolute move.
For example, if \fBxpos\fR = 1 and \fBypos\fR = 2 and \fBrelative\fR = \fBTRUE\fR,
then the widget would move one row down and two columns right.
If the value of \fBrelative\fR was \fBFALSE\fR then the widget would move to the position (1,2).
Do not use the values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, or \fICENTER\fR when \fBrelative\fR = \fITRUE\fR.
(weird things may happen).
The final parameter \fBrefresh\fR is a boolean value which
states whether the widget will get refreshed after the move.
.TP 5
.B *newCDKViewer
function creates a viewer widget and returns a pointer to it.
The \fBscreen\fR parameter
is the screen you wish this widget to be placed in.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR
controls the placement of the object along the horizontal axis.
This parameter
may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR controls the placement
of the object along the vertical axis.
This parameter may be an integer
value or one of the pre-defined values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameters \fBheight\fR and \fBwidth\fR state how tall and wide the viewer
window is to be.
The \fBbuttons\fR is an array of the button labels which are
to be attached to the viewer on the bottom; \fBbuttonCount\fR tells the viewer
how many buttons there are.
The parameter \fBbuttonHighlight\fR is the highlight
attribute of the currently selected button.
The \fBbox\fR parameter states
whether the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
The \fBshadow\fR
parameter accepts a boolean value to turn the shadow on or off around this widget.
If the widget could not be created then a \fINULL\fR pointer is returned.
.TP 5
.B positionCDKViewer
allows the user to move the widget around the screen via the cursor/keypad keys.
See \fBcdk_position (3)\fR for key bindings.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewer
lets the programmer modify certain elements of an existing
viewer widget.
The parameter \fBtitle\fR is the title to be displayed on
the top of the viewer.
The parameter \fBinfo\fR is the information to display,
while \fBinfoSize\fR states how many rows there are in the \fBinfo\fR array.
The parameter \fBbuttonAttribute\fR states the attribute of the current
highlighted button.
The boolean parameter \fBinterpret\fR tells the viewer to
interpret the contents of \fBinfo\fR for Cdk display command.
The \fBshowLineInfo\fR boolean flag tells the viewer to show to show the
line number and percentage in the top left corner of the viewer window.
The parameters \fBbox\fR and \fBshadow\fR are the same as in the function
description of \fInewCDKViewer\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerBackgroundColor
sets the background color of the widget.
The parameter \fBcolor\fR
is in the format of the Cdk format strings.
See \fBcdk_display (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerBox
sets whether the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerBoxAttribute
sets the attribute of the box.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerHighlight
sets the highlight attribute of the buttons on the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerHorizontalChar
sets the horizontal drawing character for the box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerInfo
sets the contents of the viewer widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerInfoLine
turns on/off the information line in the top left hand corner of
the widget.
If the value of \fBshowInfoLine\fR is \fITRUE\fR, the information
line will be displayed.
If it is \fIFALSE\fR it won't.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerLLChar
sets the lower left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerLRChar
sets the lower right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerTitle
sets the title of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerULChar
sets the upper left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerURChar
sets the upper right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKViewerVerticalChar
sets the vertical drawing character for the box to the given character.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
When the widget is activated there are several default key bindings which will
help the user enter or manipulate the information quickly.
The following table
outlines the keys and their actions for this widget.
.LP
.TS
center;
l l
l l
lw15 lw35 .
\fBKey	Action\fR
=
Left Arrow	Shifts the viewport one column left.
Right Arrow	Shifts the viewport one column left
Up Arrow	Scrolls the viewport one line up.
Down Arrow	Scrolls the viewport one line down.
Prev Page	Moves one page backwards.
Ctrl-B	Moves one page backwards.
B	Moves one page backwards.
b	Moves one page backwards.
Next Page	Moves one page forwards.
Ctrl-F	Moves one page forwards.
Space	Moves one page forwards.
F	Moves one page forwards.
f	Moves one page forwards.
Home	Shifts the whole list to the far left.
|	Shifts the whole list to the far left.
End	Shifts the whole list to the far right
$	Shifts the whole list to the far right.
g	Moves to the first line in the viewer.
1	Moves to the first line in the viewer.
G	Moves to the last line in the viewer.
L	T{
Moves half the distance to the end of the viewer.
T}
l	T{
Moves half the distance to the top of the viewer.
T}
?	Searches up for a pattern.
/	Searches down for a pattern.
n	Repeats last search.
:	Jumps to a given line.
i	Displays file statistics.
s	Displays file statistics.
Tab	Switches buttons.
Return	T{
Exits the widget and returns the index of the selected button.
This also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
T}
Escape	T{
Exits the widget and returns -1.
This also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
T}
Ctrl-L	Refreshes the screen.
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk (3X),
.BR cdk_binding (3X),
.BR cdk_display (3X),
.BR cdk_position (3),
.BR cdk_screen (3X)
