'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_swindow.3,v 1.13 2003/04/18 00:18:26 tom Exp $
.de It
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH cdk_swindow 3
.SH NAME
activateCDKSwindow,
addCDKSwindow,
cleanCDKSwindow,
destroyCDKSwindow,
drawCDKSwindow,
dumpCDKSwindow,
dumpCDKSwindowInformation,
eraseCDKSwindow,
execCDKSwindow,
getCDKSwindowBox,
getCDKSwindowContents,
injectCDKSwindow,
jumpToLineCDKSwindow,
loadCDKSwindowInformation,
moveCDKSwindow,
newCDKSwindow,
positionCDKSwindow,
saveCDKSwindowInformation,
setCDKSwindow,
setCDKSwindowBackgroundColor,
setCDKSwindowBox,
setCDKSwindowBoxAttribute,
setCDKSwindowContents,
setCDKSwindowHorizontalChar,
setCDKSwindowLLChar,
setCDKSwindowLRChar,
setCDKSwindowPostProcess,
setCDKSwindowPreProcess,
setCDKSwindowULChar,
setCDKSwindowURChar,
setCDKSwindowVerticalChar,
trimCDKSwindow \- a curses scrolling window widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "void activateCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype * " "actions");
.TP 15
.B "void addCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "char *" "info",
.BI "int " "insertPosition");
.TP 15
.B "void cleanCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.TP 15
.B "int execCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "char * " "command",
.BI "int " "insertPosition");
.TP 15
.B "void destroyCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.TP 15
.B "void drawCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void dumpCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "char *" "filename");
.TP 15
.B "int dumpCDKSwindowInformation ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow\fR,"
.BI "char *" "filename);"
.TP 15
.B "void eraseCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.B "void execCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow,"
.BI "char *" "command,"
.BI "int " "insertPosition);"
.B "boolean getCDKSwindowBox ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow);"
.TP 15
.B "chtype **getCDKSwindowContents ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.TP 15
.B "int injectCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "input");
.TP 15
.B "void jumpToLineCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "int " "line");
.TP 15
.B "void loadCDKSwindowInformation ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.TP 15
.B "void moveCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "boolean " "relative",
.BI "boolean " "refresh");
.TP 15
.B "CDKSWINDOW *newCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "cdkscreen",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "int " "height",
.BI "int " "width",
.BI "char *" "title",
.BI "int " "saveLines",
.BI "boolean " "box",
.BI "boolean " "shadow");
.TP 15
.B "void positionCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.TP 15
.B "void saveCDKSwindowInformation ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "char **" "info",
.BI "int " "lines",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowBackgroundColor ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "char * " "color");
.B "void setCDKSwindowBox ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow,"
.BI "boolean " "boxWidget);"
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowBoxAttribute ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowContents ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "char **" "info",
.BI "int " "lines");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowHorizontalChar ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowLLChar ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowLRChar ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowPostProcess ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "callback",
.BI "void * " "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowPreProcess ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "callback",
.BI "void * " "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowULChar ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowURChar ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKSwindowVerticalChar ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void trimCDKSwindow ("
.BI "CDKSWINDOW *" "swindow",
.BI "int " "start",
.BI "int " "finish");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cdk scrolling window (swindow) widget can be used to display messages.
The following functions create or manipulate the Cdk swindow box widget.
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B activateCDKSwindow
function activates the swindow widget and lets the user interact with the widget.
The parameter \fBswindow\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL swindow widget.
If the \fBactions\fR parameter is passed with a non-NULL value, the characters
in the array will be injected into the widget.
To activate the widget
interactively pass in a \fINULL\fR pointer for \fBactions\fR.
If the character
entered into this widget is \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will
return 1.
It will also set the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the character entered into this widget was \fIESCAPE\fR then the widget will
return a value of -1 and the widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to
\fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
.TP 5
.B addCDKSwindow
adds information to a scrolling window.
The information
is supplied by the \fBinfo\fR parameter.
The information is immediately added
to the scrolling window.
The position of the new information is governed by
the value of the parameter \fBinsertPosition\fR.
This parameter may be
two values: \fITOP\fR or \fIBOTTOM\fR.
.TP 5
.B cleanCDKSwindow
clears the information from the window.
.TP 5
.B destroyCDKSwindow
removes the widget from the screen and frees memory the object used.
.TP 5
.B drawCDKSwindow
draws the swindow widget on the screen.
If the \fBbox\fR parameter is true, the widget is drawn with a box.
.TP 5
.B dumpCDKSwindow
writes the contents of the swindow widget to a file.
.TP 5
.B dumpCDKSwindowInformation
saves the contents of the scrolling window into the file
specified by the \fBfilename\fR parameter.
It returns -1 on failure,
and the number of lines saved if the dump was successful.
.TP 5
.B eraseCDKSwindow
removes the widget from the screen.
This does \fINOT\fR destroy the widget.
.TP 5
.B execCDKSwindow
allows the user to execute a shell command and have the output
of the shell command direct itself to the scrolling window.
The \fBcommand\fR parameter is the command to execute.
The \fBinsertPosition\fR parameter tells where the
output will be inserted within the scrolling window.
.TP 5
.B getCDKSwindowBox
returns true if the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B getCDKSwindowContents
returns the contents of the scrolling window.
The parameter \fBlines\fR will be
set to the number of lines returned.
.TP 5
.B injectCDKSwindow
injects a single character into the widget.
The parameter \fBswindow\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL swindow widget.
The parameter \fBcharacter\fR is the character to inject into the widget.
If the character
injected into this widget was \fIRETURN\fR then the character injected into
this widget is \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will return 1.
It will also set the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the
character entered into this widget was \fIESCAPE\fR then the widget will return
a value of -1 and the widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to
\fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
Any other character injected into the widget will set the
widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvEARLY_EXIT\fR and the function will
return -1.
.TP 5
.B jumpToLineCDKSwindow
moves the scrolling window to the given line.
The parameter \fBline\fR may be an integer or one of the two predefined values
\fITOP\fR and \fIBOTTOM\fR.
.TP 5
.B loadCDKSwindowInformation
allows the user to load the contents of a file into the scrolling window.
This function is interactive, and will ask for a filename.
.TP 5
.B moveCDKSwindow
moves the given widget to the given position.
The parameters \fBxpos\fR and \fBypos\fR are the new position of the widget.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBrelative\fR states whether
the \fBxpos\fR/\fBypos\fR pair is a relative move or an absolute move.
For example,
if \fBxpos\fR = 1 and \fBypos\fR = 2 and \fBrelative\fR = \fBTRUE\fR,
then the widget would move one row down and two columns right.
If the value of \fBrelative\fR was \fBFALSE\fR then the widget would move to the position (1,2).
Do not use the values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, or \fICENTER\fR when \fBrelative\fR = \fITRUE\fR
(weird things may happen).
The final parameter \fBrefresh\fR is a boolean value which
states whether the widget will get refreshed after the move.
.TP 5
.B newCDKSwindow
creates a swindow widget and returns a pointer to it.
The \fBscreen\fR parameter
is the screen you wish this widget to be placed in.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR
controls the placement of the object along the horizontal axis.
This parameter
may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR controls the placement
of the object along the vertical axis.
This parameter may be an integer
value or one of the pre-defined values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameters \fBheight\fR and \fBwidth\fR control the height and width of the widget.
If you provide a value of zero for either of the height or the width, the
widget will be created with the full width and height of the screen.
If you provide
a negative value, the widget will be created the full height or width minus the
value provided.
The \fBtitle\fR parameter is the string which will be displayed at
the top of the widget.
The title can be more than one line; just provide a carriage
return character at the line break.
The parameter \fBsaveLines\fR is the number of
lines to save before throwing information away.
The \fBbox\fR parameter states
whether the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
The \fBshadow\fR
parameter accepts a boolean value to turn the shadow on or off around this widget.
If the widget could not be created then a \fINULL\fR pointer is returned.
.TP 5
.B positionCDKSwindow
allows the user to move the widget around the screen via the
cursor/keypad keys.
See \fBcdk_position (3)\fR for key bindings.
.TP 5
.B saveCDKSwindowInformation
allows the user to save the contents of the scrolling window into a file.
This function is interactive, and will ask for a filename.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindow
lets the programmer modify certain elements of an existing
swindow widget.
The parameter \fBinfo\fR is a \fIchar **\fR of the information
to set in the scrolling window; \fBlines\fR is the number of lines being added.
The other parameter names correspond to the same parameter names listed in the
\fInewCDKSwindow\fR function.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowBackgroundColor
sets the background color of the widget.
The parameter \fBcolor\fR
is in the format of the Cdk format strings.
See \fBcdk_display (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowBox
sets whether the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowBoxAttribute
sets the attribute of the box.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowContents
lets the programmer modify certain elements of an existing swindow widget.
The parameter \fBinfo\fR is a \fIchar **\fR of the information
to set in the scrolling window; \fBlines\fR is the number of lines being added.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowHorizontalChar
sets the horizontal drawing character for the box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowLLChar
sets the lower left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowLRChar
sets the lower right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowPostProcess
allows the user to have the widget call a function after the
key has been applied to the widget.
The parameter \fBfunction\fR is the callback function.
The parameter \fBdata\fR points to data passed to the callback function.
To learn more about post-processing see \fIcdk_process (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowPreProcess
allows the user to have the widget call a function after a key
is hit and before the key is applied to the widget.
The parameter \fBfunction\fR is the callback function.
The parameter \fBdata\fR points to data passed to the callback function.
To learn more about pre-processing see \fIcdk_process (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowULChar
sets the upper left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowURChar
sets the upper right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKSwindowVerticalChar
sets the vertical drawing character for the box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B trimCDKSwindow
removes information from a scrolling window.
The parameters \fBstart\fR and \fBend\fR state where to start cutting from and where to stop.
The first element in the scrolling window starts at index 0.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
When the widget is activated there are several default key bindings which will
help the user enter or manipulate the information quickly.
The following table
outlines the keys and their actions for this widget.
.LP
.TS
center tab(/) ;
l l
lw(15) lw(45) .
\fBKey/Action\fR
=
Left Arrow/Scrolls the window left one column.
Right Arrow/Scrolls the window right one column.
Up Arrow/Scrolls the window up one row.
Down Arrow/Scrolls the window down one row.
Prev Page/Scrolls the window backward one page.
Ctrl-B/Scrolls the window backward one page.
b/Scrolls the window backward one page.
B/Scrolls the window backward one page.
Next Page/Scrolls the window forward one page.
Ctrl-F/Scrolls the window forward one page.
Space/Scrolls the window forward one page.
f/Scrolls the window forward one page.
F/Scrolls the window forward one page.
Home/Scrolls the list to the left margin.
|/Scrolls the list to the left margin.
End/Scrolls the list to the right margin.
$/Scrolls the list to the right margin.
g/T{
Moves to the top of the scrolling window.
T}
1/T{
Moves to the top of the scrolling window.
T}
G/T{
Moves to the bottom of the scrolling window.
T}
l/T{
Loads a file into the scrolling window.
T}
L/T{
Loads a file into the scrolling window.
T}
s/T{
Saves the contents of the scrolling window into a file.
T}
S/T{
Saves the contents of the scrolling window into a file.
T}
Return/T{
Sets the widget's \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR, exits the widget and returns 1.
T}
Tab/T{
Sets the widget's \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR, exits the widget and returns 1.
T}
Escape/T{
Sets the widget's \fIexitType\fR to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR, exits the widget and returns -1.
T}
Ctrl-L/Refreshes the screen.
=
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk (3),
.BR cdk_binding (3),
.BR cdk_display (3),
.BR cdk_position (3),
.BR cdk_screen (3)
