'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_entry.3,v 1.12 2002/02/26 00:40:04 tom Exp $
.TH cdk_entry 3
.SH NAME
activateCDKEntry,
cleanCDKEntry,
destroyCDKEntry,
drawCDKEntry,
eraseCDKEntry,
getCDKEntryBox,
getCDKEntryFillerChar,
getCDKEntryHiddenChar,
getCDKEntryMax,
getCDKEntryMin,
getCDKEntryValue,
injectCDKEntry,
moveCDKEntry,
newCDKEntry,
positionCDKEntry,
setCDKEntry,
setCDKEntryBackgroundColor,
setCDKEntryBox,
setCDKEntryBoxAttribute,
setCDKEntryCB,
setCDKEntryFillerChar,
setCDKEntryHiddenChar,
setCDKEntryHorizontalChar,
setCDKEntryLLChar,
setCDKEntryLRChar,
setCDKEntryMax,
setCDKEntryMin,
setCDKEntryPostProcess,
setCDKEntryPreProcess,
setCDKEntryULChar,
setCDKEntryURChar,
setCDKEntryValue,
setCDKEntryVerticalChar \- curses text-entry widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "char *activateCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype *" "actions");
.TP 15
.B "void cleanCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "void destroyCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "void drawCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void eraseCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "boolean getCDKEntryBox ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "chtype getCDKEntryFillerChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "chtype getCDKEntryHiddenChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "int getCDKEntryMax ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "int getCDKEntryMin ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "char *getCDKEntryValue ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "int injectCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "input");
.TP 15
.B "void moveCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "int " "box",
.BI "int " "box",
.BI "boolean " "relative",
.BI "boolean " "refresh");
.TP 15
.B "CDKENTRY *newCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "cdkscreen",
.BI "int " "xpos",
.BI "int " "ypos",
.BI "char *" "title",
.BI "char *" "label",
.BI "chtype " "fieldAttribute",
.BI "chtype " "fillerCharacter",
.BI "EDisplayType " "displayType",
.BI "int " "fieldWidth",
.BI "int " "minimumLength",
.BI "int " "maximumLength",
.BI "boolean " "box",
.BI "boolean " "shadow");
.TP 15
.B "void positionCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntry ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "char *" "value",
.BI "int " "minimumLength",
.BI "int " "maximumLength",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryBackgroundColor ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "char * " "color");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryBox ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "boolean " "box");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryBoxAttribute ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryCB ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "ENTRYCB " "callBackFunction");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryFillerChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryHiddenChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryHorizontalChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryLLChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryLRChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryMax ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "int " "maximum");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryMin ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "int " "minimum");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryPostProcess ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "callback",
.BI "void * " "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryPreProcess ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "callback",
.BI "void * " "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryULChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryURChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryValue ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "char *" "value");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKEntryVerticalChar ("
.BI "CDKENTRY *" "entry",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cdk entry widget creates a text-entry box with a label and an entry field.
The following functions create or manipulate the Cdk entry box widget.
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B activateCDKEntry
activates the entry widget and lets the user interact with the widget.
The parameter \fBentry\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL entry widget.
If the \fBactions\fR parameter is passed with a non-NULL value, the characters
in the array will be injected into the widget.
To activate the widget
interactively pass in a \fINULL\fR pointer for \fBactions\fR.
If the character entered
into this widget is \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will return
a \fIchar *\fR representing the information typed into the widget and the
widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the character
entered was \fIESCAPE\fR then the function will return \fINULL\fR pointer and
the widget data \fIexitType\fR is set to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
.TP 5
.B cleanCDKEntry
clears the information from the field.
.TP 5
.B destroyCDKEntry
removes the widget from the screen and frees memory the object used.
.TP 5
.B drawCDKEntry
draws the entry widget on the screen.
If the \fBbox\fR parameter is true, the widget is drawn with a box.
.TP 5
.B eraseCDKEntry
removes the widget from the screen.
This does \fINOT\fR destroy the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKEntryBox
returns true if the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B getCDKEntryFillerChar
returns the character being used to draw unused space in the widget.
.TP 5
.B getCDKEntryHiddenChar
returns the character being used to draw the hidden character type.
.TP 5
.B getCDKEntryMax
returns the maximum length of a string the widget will allow.
.TP 5
.B getCDKEntryMin
returns the minimum length of a string the widget will allow.
.TP 5
.B getCDKEntryValue
returns the current value of the widget.
.TP 5
.B injectCDKEntry
injects a single character into the widget.
The parameter \fBentry\fR is a pointer to a non-NULL entry.
The parameter \fBcharacter\fR is the character to inject into the widget.
If the character
injected into this widget was \fIRETURN\fR or \fITAB\fR then this function will
return a \fIchar *\fR representing the information typed into the widget and the
widget data \fIexitType\fR will be set to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
If the character
entered was \fIESCAPE\fR then the function will return \fINULL\fR pointer and
the widget data \fIexitType\fR is set to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
Any other
character injected into the widget will set the widget data \fIexitType\fR
to \fIvEARLY_EXIT\fR and the function will return a \fINULL\fR pointer.
.TP 5
.B moveCDKEntry
moves the given widget to the given position.
The parameters \fBxpos\fR and \fBypos\fR are the new position of the widget.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fILEFT\fR, \fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBrelative\fR states whether
the \fBxpos\fR/\fBypos\fR pair is a relative move or an absolute move.
For example, if \fBxpos\fR = 1 and \fBypos\fR = 2 and \fBrelative\fR = \fBTRUE\fR,
then the widget would move one row down and two columns right.
If the value of \fBrelative\fR was \fBFALSE\fR then the widget would move to the position (1,2).
Do not use the values \fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, \fILEFT\fR,
\fIRIGHT\fR, or \fICENTER\fR when \fBrelative\fR = \fITRUE\fR.
(weird things may happen).
The final parameter \fBrefresh\fR is a boolean value which states
whether the widget will get refreshed after the move.
.TP 5
.B newCDKEntry
creates a pointer to an entry widget.
The \fBscreen\fR parameter
is the screen you wish this widget to be placed in.
The parameter \fBxpos\fR
controls the placement of the object along the horizontal axis.
This parameter may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values
\fILEFT\fR, \fIRIGHT\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The parameter \fBypos\fR controls the placement
of the object along the vertical axis.
This parameter may be an integer or one of the pre-defined values 
\fITOP\fR, \fIBOTTOM\fR, and \fICENTER\fR.
The \fBtitle\fR parameter is the string which will be displayed at the top of
the widget.
The title can be more than one line; just provide a carriage
return character at the line break.
The \fBlabel\fR parameter is the string which
will be displayed in the label of the entry field.
The \fBfieldAttribute\fR is
the attribute of the characters to be displayed when they are typed in.
\fBfiller\fR is the character which is to be displayed in an empty space in
the entry field.
The parameter \fBdisplayType\fR tells how the entry field
will behave when a character is entered into the field.
See \fBcdk_display (3)\fR for valid values for this field.
The \fBfieldWidth\fR parameter states how wide the field will be.
If a value
of zero is provided, the field will be made as wide as possible on the screen.
If a negative value is given, then the field width will be the
maximum width minus the value provided.
The parameter \fBminimumLength\fR
states how many characters have to be entered before the user can exit the
entry field.
The \fBmaximumLength\fR parameter sets the maximum number of
characters that can be entered.
The \fBbox\fR parameter states whether the
widget will be drawn with a box around it.
The \fBshadow\fR parameter is true to turn the shadow on around this widget.
If the widget could not be created then a \fINULL\fR pointer is returned.
.TP 5
.B positionCDKEntry
allows the user to move the widget around the screen via the
cursor/keypad keys.
The following key bindings can be used to move the
widget around the screen.
See \fBcdk_position (3)\fR for key bindings.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntry
lets the programmer modify certain elements of an existing
entry widget.
The \fBvalue\fR parameter sets the value of the contents of the
entry field.
The other parameter names correspond to the same parameter names
listed in the \fInewCDKEntry\fR function.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryBackgroundColor
sets the background color of the widget.
The parameter \fBcolor\fR
is in the format of the Cdk format strings.
See \fBcdk_display (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryBox
sets whether the widget will be drawn with a box around it.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryBoxAttribute
function sets the attribute of the box.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryCB
allows the programmer to set a different widget input handler.
The parameter \fBcallbackFunction\fR is of type \fIENTRYCB\fR.
The default function is \fICDKEntryCallBack\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryFillerChar
sets the character to use when drawing unused space in the field.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryHiddenChar
sets the character to use when using a hidden character type.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryHorizontalChar
sets the horizontal drawing character for the box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryLLChar
sets the lower left hand corner of the widget's box to
the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryLRChar
sets the lower right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryMax
sets the maximum length of the string that the widget will allow.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryMin
sets the minimum length of the string that the widget will allow.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryPostProcess
allows the user to have the widget call a function after the
key has been applied to the widget.
The parameter \fBfunction\fR is the callback function.
The parameter \fBdata\fR points to data passed to the callback function.
To learn more about post-processing see \fIcdk_process (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryPreProcess
allows the user to have the widget call a function after a key
is hit and before the key is applied to the widget.
The parameter \fBfunction\fR is the callback function.
The parameter \fBdata\fR points to data passed to the callback function.
To learn more about pre-processing see \fIcdk_process (3)\fR.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryULChar
sets the upper left hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryURChar
sets the upper right hand corner of the widget's box to the given character.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryValue
sets the current value of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKEntryVerticalChar
sets the vertical drawing character for the box to
the given character.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
When the widget is activated there are several default key bindings which will
help the user enter or manipulate the information quickly.
The following table
outlines the keys and their actions for this widget.
.LP
.TS
center tab(/);
l l
lw15 lw35 .
\fBKey/Action\fR
=
Left Arrow/Moves the cursor to the left.
CTRL-B/Moves the cursor to the left.
Right Arrow/Moves the cursor to the right.
CTRL-F/Moves the cursor to the right.
Delete/Deletes the character before cursor.
Backspace/Deletes the character before cursor.
CTRL-H/Deletes the character before cursor.
CTRL-V/T{
Pastes whatever is in the paste buffer, into the widget.
T}
CTRL-X/T{
Cuts the contents from the widget and saves a copy in the paste buffer.
T}
CTRL-Y/T{
Copies the contents of the widget into the paste buffer.
T}
CTRL-U/Erases the contents of the widget.
CTRL-A/T{
Moves the cursor to the begining of the entry field.
T}
CTRL-E/T{
Moves the cursor to the end of the entry field.
T}
CTRL-T/T{
Transposes the characer under the cursor with the character to the right.
T}
Return/T{
Exits the widget and returns a \fIchar *\fR representing the information which was typed into the field.
It also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
T}
Tab/T{
Exits the widget and returns a \fIchar *\fR representing the information which was typed into the field.
It also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvNORMAL\fR.
T}
Escape/T{
Exits the widget and returns a \fINULL\fR pointer.
It also sets the widget data \fIexitType\fR to \fIvESCAPE_HIT\fR.
T}
Ctrl-L/Refreshes the screen.
=
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk (3X),
.BR cdk_binding (3X),
.BR cdk_display (3X),
.BR cdk_position (3),
.BR cdk_process (3X),
.BR cdk_screen (3X)
